# HW7

## 7_1
(Difficulty: ★☆☆☆☆) Write a command-line program named prog1.py to print A / B.
It needs to handle at least two exceptions: ZeroDivisionError , ValueError  . When exception occurs, quotient should be set to -1 .

## 7_2
(Difficulty: ★☆☆☆☆) Write a command-line program named prog2.py to read a file and print it out. It needs to handheld the exception: FileNotFoundError . The program should display as follows:

## 7_3
(Difficulty: ★☆☆☆☆) Write a command-line program named prog3.py to write a file and print it out. It needs to handheld the exception: FileNotFoundError . The program should display as follows:

## 7_4
(Difficulty: ★★☆☆☆) Write a command-line program named genmul.py to generate a multiplication table into a text file.  It takes three command-line arguments and use them to generate a multiplication table by writing the text into a file.

```
$ python3 genmul.py 5 7 5x7.txt
$ cat 5x7.txt
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
2 4 6 8 10 12 14
3 6 9 12 15 18 21
4 8 12 16 20 24 28
5 10 15 20 25 30 35
$ _
```

So, essentially the program reads the command-line arguments by import sys and reading the values of sys.argv list to get the two numbers for the multiplication table and the file name. If the arguments are not valid int literals then the program should report error to sys.stderr.   The file name is the command-line argument after the two numbers to multiply, and in this example it is  '5x7.txt'.  If opening a file fails, then the error message should be reported to sys.stderr also.

Hints:
a.	You should open the text file for writing or overwriting.
b.	You have several options to write the products to file.  Be sure each line (including the last) ends on a newline.
c.	Be sure you close the file after you finish writing.  You may call close method on the file handle explicitly or you may use the with construct to automatically close the file when leaving the suite.
d.	You may use a nested loop to calculate each product, but it may be easier if you use list comprehension to calculate the list of products and then print.

## 7_5
(Difficulty: ★★★☆☆) Write a command-line program named checkmul.py to read the multiplication table for correctness.  It takes the same three command-line arguments as genmult.py but instead of writing to the file, it reads the file and checks if the multiplication table is correct.  If incorrect, it prints the incorrect entry and the correct answer.  For example, if you have a file generated by genmul.py above, then
```
$ python3 checkmul.py  5  7  5x7.txt
Multiplication table in file 5x7.txt is correct.
$ _
However, if you use another file named 5x7wrong.txt whose content is as follows
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
2 4 6 8 13 12 14
3 6 9 12 15 18 21
4 8 12 17 20 24 28
5 10 15 z0 25 30 35
```

(where the incorrect entries are highlighted), then the checkmul.py program should  display as follows:
```
$ python3 checkmul.py 5 7 5x7wrong.txt
2 x 5 = 13 is incorrect; should be 10
4 x 4 = 17 is incorrect; should be 16
5 x 4 = z0 is badly formatted; should be 20
Multiplication table in file checkmul.py contains 3 errors.
$ _
```

Hints
a.	You should read one line at a time and use the split() method to convert them into a list of strings. Then, convert each one into an integer.  If the string is not a properly formatted integer (decimal) literal, then report it as an incorrect result.
b.	Your program is likely to be a nested-loop structure: the outer loop iterates over the multiplier and the inner loop iterates over the multiplicand.
c.	You need to keep a variable for error count.  When printing the final message, check if error is 1.  If so, don't add the 's'; otherwise, add 's' to make it plural.

## 7_6
(Difficulty: ★★☆☆☆) Write a simple calculator that supports addition (+), subtraction (-), multiplication (*), and division (/).

- The program should prompt the user to enter an expression.
- The program only handles one operator with two operands at a time. The operands and the operator are separated by a space.
- After calculating, print the answer to the user and prompt again.
- If the user enter 'quit' instead of an expression, say goodbye to the user and end the program.
- Consider only integer operands. The result of an division should be rounded to the nearest hundredth (0.666 → 0.67).
- Report error if dividing by 0.
- Report error for incomplete expressions, non-integer operands and not supported operators.
- You should at least raise or catch ZeroDivisionError and ValueError in your code.

```
$ python3 calc.py
Enter an expression: 3 + 5
Answer: 8
Enter an expression: 4 * 3
Answer: 12
Enter an expression: 2 - 14
Answer: -12
Enter an expression: 5 / 3
Answer: 1.67
Enter an expression: 8 / 0
Error: Cannot divide by 0
Enter an expression: 2 +
Error: Invalid expression
Enter an expression: a + 3
Error: Invalid expression
Enter an expression: 2 ^ 3
Error: Invalid expression
Enter an expression: quit
Goodbye!
$ _
```

## 7_bonus
(Difficulty: ★★★★☆) Tiki Topple(中譯:推倒提基) is a famous board game. Players change the order of 9 Tikis to win the game. In this problem, two files named Tiki_line.txt and Operation_list.txt whose content is as follows:

Tiki_line.txt
#1 red
#2 yellow
#3 blue
#4 green
#5 purple
#6 pink
#7 orange
#8 brown
#9 grey

Operation_list.txt
# operation list:

# help - check the operation list.
# look - print Tiki line in the screen.
# Tiki up 1 - move a tiki up 1 space in the line. 
# Tiki up 2 - move a tiki up 2 space in the line.
# Tiki up 3 - move a tiki up 3 space in the line.
# Tiki Topple - move a tiki to the bottom of the line.
# Tiki Toast - remove the tiki at the bottom of the line.
# Reset - Reset Tiki line.
# quit - quit the game and say goodbye.

Write a program named mini_Tiki_Topple.py,
[NOTE]
+	The program should prompt the user to enter an operation in the Operation_list.txt.
+	When user input help :
-	The program will open Operation_list.txt and print its content.
+	When user input look :
-	The program will open Tiki_line.txt and print its content.
+	When user input Tiki up n (n = 1 ~ 3) :
-	The program asks the user to select a target color(target tiki name).
-	The program will open Tiki_line.txt and read its content.
-	The program will move the target tiki up n space in the tiki line.
-	The program will write the result to the Tiki_line.txt .
-	If user enter a target color against the rule, the program will except and report the error message (Error: Invalid target) to sys.stderr
-	 For example, the user enters Tiki up 3 and selects blue being the target color. Because blue is in the #3 position, it cannot be moved up 3 space. So an exception has occurred, and the program don’t change any tikis in the Tiki_line.txt .
+	When user input Tiki Topple : 
-	The program asks the user to select a target color(target tiki name).
-	The program will open Tiki_line.txt and read its content.
-	The program will move the target tiki to the bottom of the tiki line.
-	The program will write the result to the Tiki_line.txt .
-	For example, blue is in the #3 position. The user enters Tiki Topple and selects blue being the target color. After this operation, all tiki under the blue tiki will move up 1 space. The program will put blue to the bottom of the tiki line, and write the result to Tiki_line.txt
+	When user input Tiki Toast :
-	The program will open Tiki_line.txt and read its content.
-	The program will remove the tiki at the bottom of the tiki line.
-	The program will write the result to the Tiki_line.txt .
-	For example, grey is in the #9 position. The user enters Tiki Toast. After this operation, The program will remove grey from the tiki line, and write the result to Tiki_line.txt . Note that Tiki_line.txt will have only 8 tikis .
-	ps:  There must be at least three tikis in the tiki line, if the user enters Tiki Toast, but it only three tikis in the line. An exception occurs(Error: You can't do this operation.), and the program won’t change any tikis in the Tiki_line.txt .
+	When user input quit :
-	The program will print(“Goodbye !”) and quit the program.
+	When user input Reset :
-	The program will open Tiki_line.txt .
-	The program will write new content to Tiki_line.txt
-	New content is a list whose content as follows :
"#1 red\n#2 yellow\n#3 blue\n#4 green\n#5 purple\n#6 pink\n#7 orange\n#8 brown\n#9 grey\n"
-	(optional) New content may be assigned by user 
+	If user enter an operation not occurs in Operation_list.txt :
-	An exception occurs(Error: Invalid operation.), and the program won’t change any tikis in the Tiki_line.txt .
+	You should consider exceptions as more as possiple,for example : ValueError,KeyError,FileNotFoundError, etc.
+	
The program should display as follows:

```
$ python3 mini_Tiki_Topple.py
What's your operation? help
# operation list:

# help - check the operation list.
# look - print Tiki line in the screen.
# Tiki up 1 - move a tiki up 1 space in the line.
# Tiki up 2 - move a tiki up 2 space in the line.
# Tiki up 3 - move a tiki up 3 space in the line.
# Tiki Topple - move a tiki to the bottom of the line.
# Tiki Toast - remove the tiki at the bottom of the line.
# Reset - Reset Tiki line.
# quit - quit the game and say goodbye.

What's your operation? look
#1 red
#2 yellow
#3 blue
#4 green
#5 purple
#6 pink
#7 orange
#8 brown
#9 grey

What's your operation? Tiki up 1
Select your target color: purple
What's your operation? Tiki up 2
Select your target color: pink
What's your operation? look
#1 red
#2 yellow
#3 blue
#4 pink
#5 purple
#6 green
#7 orange
#8 brown
#9 grey
What's your operation? Tiki up 3
Select your target color: blue
Error: You can't do this operation.
What's your operation? Tiki up 3 
Select your target color: white 
Error: Invalid target
What's your operation? Tiki up 3
Select your target color: pink
What's your operation? Tiki Topple
Select your target color: green
What's your operation? look
#1 pink
#2 red
#3 yellow
#4 blue
#5 purple
#6 orange
#7 brown
#8 grey
#9 green

What's your operation? Tiki Toast
What's your operation? Tiki Toast
What's your operation? look
#1 pink
#2 red
#3 yellow
#4 blue
#5 purple
#6 orange
#7 brown

What's your operation? Reset
What's your operation? look
#1 red
#2 yellow
#3 blue
#4 green
#5 purple
#6 pink
#7 orange
#8 brown
#9 grey

What's your operation? quit
Goodbye!
```




